---
categories:
  - Misc
  - Talks
tags: []
comment: null
info: null
date: 2016-3-22
type: post
layout: post
published: true
sha: fd2c0b8af0bc07da07df549b9ee53f1eff6e274a
slug: mapr-talk-march-22-2016
title: MapR Talk
---
#Mapr Talk
March 22, 2016 - Tedd D

cooccurence vs matrix factorization

1. result dithering
2. anti-flood

explotation, diversity, speed - not the last fraction of a percent. 
exploratoion meaning the recommendation results today are the traning data for tomorrow. So if you make the results worse today but the training data better tomorrow - you get a better overall result. 

Dithering used to reorder recommendation results - reordering is done randomly.
Dithering is guaranteed to make offline-performance worse.
Dithering also has a near perfect record of making actual performance much better.
Hours to implement - non intuitive/academic - very pragmatic.

log of rank + gaussian noise and reorder. Pick noise scale to provide desired level of mixing.

Exploring the second page - no click through rates after around ~20th (boundary of first page). rank because of order of presentation.

floor(t/T) as a seed - stable for a time period.  - feeling of novelty.

**Lesson 1**  Exploration is good

Bayesian bandits - based on thompson sampling. Very general sequential test. near optimal regret trade-off exploration and exploitation

POssibly best known solution for exploration/exploitation - incredibly Simple

Thompson Sampling: Select each shell according to probability that it is the best. Instead of estimating from probability distrbution - let's just sample instead of estimate. Picks alternatives with the probabilities we want. 

COnverges faster than epsilon-greedy. (with Gamma-Normal prior). His graph showed outperformance by ~ 4x.  Refer to An Empirical Evaluation of Thompson Sampling (Chapelle and Li 2011). - asymptotically optimal - around 10 lines of code.


**Lesson 2:** Exploration is pretty easy to do and pays big benefits.

Thompson sampling is used by most ad targeting systems - need to explore to get better training data - kind of over academically because it has an optimality result.


The Problem
- K means clustering is useful for feature extraction or compression.
- At scale and high dimenion thedesirable number of clusters increases.
- Very large # of clusters may erquire more asses through the data.
- Super-linear scaling generally impossible

The Solution

- Sketch based algos produce a sketch of the data
- Streaming k-means uses adaptive dp-means to produce this sketch in the form of many weighted centroids which approx theorig distribution.
- The size of the sketch grows slowly with increasing data size
- Many operations such as clustering are welll behaved on sketches
- Fast and Accurate k-means for large datasets (wong/meyerson/shindler)
- Revisitng k-means via bayesian nonparametrics (jordan)
- Lots of clusters are fine
- Avoids the k-means failure of two seeds being fixed next to each other
- Sketch with k log k centroids claimed

**Lesson 3:** Sketches make big data small

**Example 4:** Search Abuse.
Recommendation: Sparse data around a person, but lots of data from lots of people - learn patterns from crowd extended to a person. 

E.g. Alice got an apple nd a puppy. Charles got a bicycle. Bob got an apple.  - We recommend Bob a puppy.

What if everyone get's a pony including amelia - now what do we recommend? Nothing we cant tell :(.

Cooccurrence Analysis  is great for this.  Different from text search, recommendation search based on using as indicators using cooccurence gives us better results! 

**Lesson 4:** Recursive search abuse pays. Search can implement recs which can implement search. 

**Example 5**: Something useful? Like something to do with money.

Common Point of Compromise:

Scenario - Merchant 0 is compromised, leaks account data during compromise, fraud committed elsewhere during exploit, high background level of fraud, limited detection rate of exploits.

Goal: Find merchant 0.

Metagoal: Screen algos for this task without leaking sensitive data.

Simulation Strategy: Pick consumer parameters such as transaction rate, prefs - no details of fraud/fraudsters/transactions/models! Then simulate using compromised period and then have higher probability of fraud during exploit probability. How can this be good? Solution: Simulate failure modes of the real system.

Parametric Simulation: Parametric matching of failure signatures allows emulation of complex data properties. Matching on KPI's and failure modes is pretty good.

e.g. Hive was broken - given schema  + skew of data - generated something to break query. 

Summary

We live in the golden age of newly achieved scale. Scale has lowered the tree - hard problems are much asier, lots of low-hanging fruit all around us.

Cheap learning has a huge value.

Code available at github.com/tdunning
